---
layout: post
author: Xuanrui
title: ICFP 2017 - Day 1 (Sept 3)
location: Oxford, UK
---

So, I'm in Oxford now. Day 1 was workshops, and I spent my entire day at PLMW as 
they funded me and I was supposed to be there. It was a nice experience, though. I 
caught a lot of people I've met before: our own Kathleen Fisher from Tufts, Dan Licata, 
Neel Krishnaswami, Ron Garcia, etc., but most people were of course new:

* Chris Martens: keynote talk on anti-disciplinary research  
Chris's talk was very interesting. Basically, Chris did his PhD at CMU in the PoP group, but 
her interests were (far) beyond defined boundaries for programming languages research. Well, 
I think one of her ideas is fairly crucial: in addition to focusing on how to do things (like 
every PL researcher does), it's also important to think about what you could do with things. Like, 
can I encode/prove theorems about interactive narrative/text adventure games using methods from 
PL? Of course not every single researcher is Chris Martens, and not everyone is going to do totally 
anti-disciplinary research, but this question is still worth contemplating frequently.  

* Conor McBride: the Frank programming language  
Takeaway: a value that represents a computation is not the same as a computation!

* Amal Ahmed: compositional compiler correctness  
Not too much to say, as I've seen this before from her lecture at OPLSS. Her talk was great, but you'd 
learn more by watching her talk at OPLSS.  

* Gabriel Scherer: (not) how to do a PhD  
Gabriel was very interesting! Although his talk was not supposed to be on how to do a PhD, it's informative 
on, well, how to do a PhD. Three takeaways: (1) work with people, (2) manage down times, and (3) doing some 
programming (practical work) can be good - especially if it's not part of your research.

* Ron Garcia: gradual types  
Again, I've seen most of it in his talk at OPLSS. So it's probably better just go to OPLSS videos.

* Nada Amin: Scala's type system  
A crash course on Scala's type system. Although Scala was a noble and successful attempt in combining 
object-orientation and higher-order, type-driven programming, unfortunately it did not have a sound type 
system. However, Nada introduced a sequence of work on DOT (dependent object types) that serves as a safe 
foundation for Scala. Not a Scala programmer, but excited to see how it goes.

* Derek Dreyer: how to write papers & give talks  
Derek's talk was interesting and exemplary - as he was giving a meta-talk on how to give talks. So, basically, 
he surmised that both paper and talks are essentially objects centered around two principles: flow and cohesion. 
Simple as that. Make your ideas connect, and make your ideas centered around one thing.
